# Architecture

Bck-i-search is comprised of three components:

1. Binding the shortcut key
2. Tab-completion
3. Execution of the completed commandline

Binding the shortcut key is trivial.

Tab-completion is done with an ArgumentCompleter, as this allows dynamic lookup. This has the following features:

- Limits the amount of history to search
- Searches most-recent first
- Deduplicates commandlines

This tab-completion is the part that discovers the commandline to run. So, it might appear that this is the difficult bit. Not so.

To execute the discovered commandline, we want to allow for cases such as:

- Commandlines including pipelines
- Multiline commandlines
- Commandlines including assignments

The ArgumentCompleter can find these and attach them to parameters of the execution component, but this breaks very quickly if we try to actually use those parameters. The parameters exist solely to allow the result to be syntactically-valid and to give the

We must instead parse the console text after the user has pressed Enter. We use break statements to prevent the bck-i-search commandline from being executed as-is.

## Alternatives considered

- Using the tab-completion to fetch HistoryInfo items from the history, and passing the Id to the execution part, which can simply be Invoke-History.
    - However, since it is the commandline that we are searching, an ArgumentCompleter could only return the commandline, not the Id, so we would still have a problem to solve.
- Proxying Invoke-History and adding a dynamic parameter
    - The dynamic parameter might be able to manipulate the console input buffer, so we could get the UX we want
    - However, dynamic parameters can be tricky to debug; I prefer to not put complexity in them (and this is fairly unusual code). My normal technique for debugging dynamic parameters is to add Write-Host statements, but that is going to interfere with the mechanism of manipulating the console experience!
